README.md, before:

# Order-the-Fuzz

## Overview

**Order-the-Fuzz** is a tool designed to assist security researchers in analyzing binary executables and identifying the most effective entry points for fuzz testing. By leveraging the **angr** binary analysis framework, the tool constructs a **call graph**, prioritizes root functions based on configurable metrics, and outputs an optimized fuzzing order.

## Features

- **Automated Call Graph Analysis:**  
  - Identifies root functions in a binary program.
  - Supports analysis from both binaries and pre-generated GML call graph files.
  
- **Fuzzing Prioritization:**  
  - Uses memory operation and function count metrics to rank root functions.
  - Customizable weighting for different analysis goals.

- **Visualization and Export:**  
  - Call graph visualization with function relationships.
  - Outputs fuzzing orders for further processing.

- **Configurable Analysis:**  
  - Adjustable parameters via a `config.json` file.
  - Flexible reordering logic to maximize function coverage.

---

## Fuzzing Order Calculation

The order in which functions are prioritized for fuzzing is determined by a **customizable metric formula**. This formula combines two metrics, each weighted according to the user-defined parameters in the `config.json` file:

**Formula**:  
`Metric Value = (weight_1 * metric_1) + (weight_2 * metric_2)`

Where:  
- **`metric_1`**: The **number of memory-related calls** reachable from a root function's subtree (e.g., calls to functions like `malloc`, `calloc`, `memcpy`).  
- **`metric_2`**: The **total number of functions** reachable in the root function's subtree.  
- **`weight_1`**: A user-defined weight emphasizing the importance of memory-related calls (`memory_call_count_weight`).  
- **`weight_2`**: A user-defined weight emphasizing the importance of function counts (`function_count_weight`).  

### Example Calculation

If you configure the following weights in `config.json`:

```json
"memory_call_count_weight": 2,
"function_count_weight": 1
```

And for a root function:
- `metric_1` = 10 (memory-related calls)
- `metric_2` = 20 (functions in the subtree)

The metric value for the root function would be:

```
Metric Value = (2 * 10) + (1 * 20) = 40
```

### Why This Matters

By adjusting the weights (`weight_1` and `weight_2`), you can tailor the fuzzing order to focus on:
- **Memory-intensive paths**: Prioritize paths with more memory operations (e.g., to uncover buffer overflows).  
- **Broader coverage**: Focus on root functions that reach a higher number of subfunctions.  

This flexibility ensures the tool can adapt to your specific fuzzing goals, whether you are targeting memory safety vulnerabilities or aiming for maximal function coverage.

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.8+**
- **pip3** (for package management)
- Dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`

### Installation Steps

1. Clone this repository:

   \`\`\`
   git clone https://github.com/flurinB/order-the-fuzz.git
   cd order-the-fuzz
   \`\`\`

2. Install the required dependencies:

   \`\`\`bash
   pip3 install -r requirements.txt
   \`\`\`

---

## Usage

### 1. Configure the Tool

Edit the `config.json` file to set your analysis parameters:

\`\`\`json
{
  "use_gml_file": false,
  "path_to_binary": "path/to/your/binary",
  "path_to_gml_file": "path/to/callgraph.gml",
  "memory_functions": ["malloc", "calloc", "memcpy"],
  "output_plot_path": "output/callgraph.png",
  "output_graph_path": "output/final_callgraph",
  "reorder_amount": -1,
  "memory_call_count_weight": 1,
  "function_count_weight": 1
}
\`\`\`

#### Configuration Values

use_gml_file: Boolean to indicate whether to analyse the given gml file \
memory_functions: The memory functions used for the memory operations metric \
output_graph_path: Path to the GML file which will be generated by the analysis \
reorder_amount: Amount of refinement in the final order; -1 = as much as possible; 0 = no refinement; 1, ... = specific amounts

---

### 2. Run the Analysis

Once the configuration is set, run the tool using:

\`\`\`
python3 main.py
\`\`\`

---

### 3. Output

After execution, the following output files will be generated:

- **\`fuzzing_order.txt\`** - The initial prioritized order of functions to fuzz.
- **Call Graph Visualization** - A `.png` image if specified in the configuration.
- **Call Graph File** - A `.gml` representation of the call graph.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a feature branch.
3. Commit your changes.
4. Open a pull request.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the \`LICENSE\` file for details.

---

## Contact

For any questions or suggestions, please contact:  
**[Flurin Baumann]** - [flurin.baumann@gmail.com]  
GitHub: [https://github.com/flurinB](https://github.com/flurinB)

Commit message:

Add ability to remove sub_N functions from analyzation

README.md, after:

# Order-the-Fuzz

## Overview

**Order-the-Fuzz** is a tool designed to assist security researchers in analyzing binary executables and identifying the most effective entry points for fuzz testing. By leveraging the **angr** binary analysis framework, the tool constructs a **call graph**, prioritizes root functions based on configurable metrics, and outputs an optimized fuzzing order.

## Features

- **Automated Call Graph Analysis:**  
  - Identifies root functions in a binary program.
  - Supports analysis from both binaries and pre-generated GML call graph files.
  
- **Fuzzing Prioritization:**  
  - Uses memory operation and function count metrics to rank root functions.
  - Customizable weighting for different analysis goals.

- **Visualization and Export:**  
  - Call graph visualization with function relationships.
  - Outputs fuzzing orders for further processing.

- **Configurable Analysis:**  
  - Adjustable parameters via a `config.json` file.
  - Flexible reordering logic to maximize function coverage.

---

## Fuzzing Order Calculation

The order in which functions are prioritized for fuzzing is determined by a **customizable metric formula**. This formula combines two metrics, each weighted according to the user-defined parameters in the `config.json` file:

**Formula**:  
`Metric Value = (weight_1 * metric_1) + (weight_2 * metric_2)`

Where:  
- **`metric_1`**: The **number of memory-related calls** reachable from a root function's subtree (e.g., calls to functions like `malloc`, `calloc`, `memcpy`).  
- **`metric_2`**: The **total number of functions** reachable in the root function's subtree.  
- **`weight_1`**: A user-defined weight emphasizing the importance of memory-related calls (`memory_call_count_weight`).  
- **`weight_2`**: A user-defined weight emphasizing the importance of function counts (`function_count_weight`).  

### Example Calculation

If you configure the following weights in `config.json`:

```json
"memory_call_count_weight": 2,
"function_count_weight": 1
```

And for a root function:
- `metric_1` = 10 (memory-related calls)
- `metric_2` = 20 (functions in the subtree)

The metric value for the root function would be:

```
Metric Value = (2 * 10) + (1 * 20) = 40
```

### Why This Matters

By adjusting the weights (`weight_1` and `weight_2`), you can tailor the fuzzing order to focus on:
- **Memory-intensive paths**: Prioritize paths with more memory operations (e.g., to uncover buffer overflows).  
- **Broader coverage**: Focus on root functions that reach a higher number of subfunctions.  

This flexibility ensures the tool can adapt to your specific fuzzing goals, whether you are targeting memory safety vulnerabilities or aiming for maximal function coverage.

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.8+**
- **pip3** (for package management)
- Dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`

### Installation Steps

1. Clone this repository:

   \`\`\`
   git clone https://github.com/flurinB/order-the-fuzz.git
   cd order-the-fuzz
   \`\`\`

2. Install the required dependencies:

   \`\`\`
   pip3 install -r requirements.txt
   \`\`\`

---

## Usage

### 1. Configure the Tool

Edit the `config.json` file to set your analysis parameters:

\`\`\`json
{
  "use_gml_file": false,
  "path_to_binary": "path/to/your/binary",
  "path_to_gml_file": "path/to/callgraph.gml",
  "memory_functions": ["malloc", "calloc", "memcpy"],
  "output_plot_path": "output/callgraph.png",
  "output_graph_path": "output/final_callgraph",
  "reorder_amount": -1,
  "memory_call_count_weight": 1,
  "function_count_weight": 1
}
\`\`\`

#### Configuration Values

use_gml_file: Boolean to indicate whether to analyse the given gml file \
memory_functions: The memory functions used for the memory operations metric \
output_graph_path: Path to the GML file which will be generated by the analysis \
reorder_amount: Amount of refinement in the final order; -1 = as much as possible; 0 = no refinement; 1, ... = specific amounts

---

### Removing `sub_N` Functions from Analysis

If `sub_N` functions are irrelevant to your analysis, the tool includes a feature to filter them out from the call graph and subsequent analyses. This can be configured in the `config.json` file:

```json
{
  "remove_sub_n_functions": true
}
```

When this option is set to `true`:
- Functions with placeholder names like `sub_N` will be excluded from the call graph.
- These functions will not contribute to metrics or fuzzing order calculations.

### How This Helps

- **Reduces Noise**: Filtering out `sub_N` functions ensures that only meaningful functions are analyzed.
- **Focus on Relevant Functions**: Eliminates unnecessary functions, allowing you to concentrate on those most relevant to fuzzing or vulnerability discovery.
- **Improves Performance**: By reducing the size of the call graph, the analysis process can be faster and more efficient.

---


### 2. Run the Analysis

Once the configuration is set, run the tool using:

\`\`\`
python3 main.py
\`\`\`

---

### 3. Output

After execution, the following output files will be generated:

- **\`fuzzing_order.txt\`** - The initial prioritized order of functions to fuzz.
- **Call Graph Visualization** - A `.png` image if specified in the configuration.
- **Call Graph File** - A `.gml` representation of the call graph.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a feature branch.
3. Commit your changes.
4. Open a pull request.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the \`LICENSE\` file for details.

---

## Contact

For any questions or suggestions, please contact:  
**[Flurin Baumann]** - [flurin.baumann@gmail.com]  
GitHub: [https://github.com/flurinB](https://github.com/flurinB)
